R/working_notes.md, before:

Fri Jul 28 14:24:14 PDT 2017

## First Steps

Following Wes' note on the mailing list.

The first goal is go back and forth between R's `data.frame` and arrow
record batches.

Python currently implements one direction for this in the C++
`arrow_to_pandas.h`:

```
Status ConvertArrayToPandas(
    const std::shared_ptr<Array>& arr, PyObject* py_ref, PyObject** out);

Status ConvertColumnToPandas(
    const std::shared_ptr<Column>& col, PyObject* py_ref, PyObject** out);

Status ConvertTableToPandas(
    const std::shared_ptr<Table>& table, int nthreads, PyObject** out);
```

Following this, the simplest thing to do is convert an Arrow array into an
R vector for a couple numeric types.


## Feather

Scanning through the feather code base, they write S3 methods for the file
containing the feather data to emulate a data.frame on disk. Perfectly
reasonable.


## What I want

- Better interoperability between R and other languages / big data tools
- A file format that supports chunked computations in a more natural way.
  Hopefully this will enhance parallel and out of core computing.
- Efficient columnar storage that preserves metadata
- Learn more C++ / low level details of data storage

Commit message:

reading pandas_to_arrow.h, making notes

R/working_notes.md, after:

Fri Jul 28 14:24:14 PDT 2017

## First Steps

Following Wes' note on the mailing list.

The first goal is go back and forth between R's `data.frame` and arrow
record batches.

Python currently implements one direction for this in the C++
`arrow_to_pandas.h`:

```
Status ConvertArrayToPandas(
    const std::shared_ptr<Array>& arr, PyObject* py_ref, PyObject** out);

Status ConvertColumnToPandas(
    const std::shared_ptr<Column>& col, PyObject* py_ref, PyObject** out);

Status ConvertTableToPandas(
    const std::shared_ptr<Table>& table, int nthreads, PyObject** out);
```

Following this, the simplest thing to do is convert between Arrow arrays
and
R vectors for a couple numeric types.

Appears that `PushArray` on line 333 in `pandas_to_arrow.h` is doing the
actual work.


## Feather

Scanning through the feather code base, they write S3 methods for the file
containing the feather data to emulate a data.frame on disk. Perfectly
reasonable.


## What I want

- Better interoperability between R and other languages / big data tools
- A file format that supports chunked computations in a more natural way.
  Hopefully this will enhance parallel and out of core computing.
- Efficient columnar storage that preserves metadata
- Learn more C++ / low level details of data storage

## Open C++ Questions

What is the meaning of `const` after a function or method signature in the
documentation?

```
const value_type* arrow::NumericArray< TYPE >::raw_data (       )   const
```

------------------------------------------------------------

Line 294 of `pandas_to_arrow.cc` calls the conversion:

>   // Traditional visitor conversion for non-object arrays

Is there a reference for this? I looked through the `visitor` files source
and am not sure what's happening.

------------------------------------------------------------

Given an array of doubles in C (no null values), what's the simplest way to make an
`arrow::Array` object from them?
